Welcome back.
This is the
most interesting section of this course,
and I plan to cover test driven
development and refactoring in this video.
What is test driven development?
The internet has many definitions.
Basically, your test will drive
the development of a feature.
Why do we do it?
Again, go through my course notes
and a couple of blocks to get the idea.
You'll also see why we do it in a moment.
But in my opinion,
the biggest advantage of test
driven development
is that you would have tests to begin
with.
You can always write tests
after you code out the feature
to log the requirements,
but we never find time for that, do we?
Now I am no testing expert, nor do
I always use test driven development.
I use it maybe 10 to 15% of the time
when I know my requirements
are pretty straightforward,
or when I discover bugs
that could creeping again in the future.
With time in practice, you'll also learn
when to use and when not to use it.
I'm still learning,
but do not let someone on the internet
tell you that
this is something you should always do.
Find the right trade off.
I would also suggest doing test
driven development as part of a pair
coding session.
This way one code's the actual feature,
while others figures
out the test, saving quite a bit of time.
Either way, let us
look at how we can use testing document
in our simple Todo application. Now,
if we open our application, we can see
a couple of things that we can fix.
First up, when we type
into the input field
and click on the add button,
the input field doesn't clear.
Next thing if I click on add button,
an empty task is being added to our list.
Next up is if I try to press enter,
I'm not able to add a task to my list.
Ideally that's a good to have feature.
So let's try to let us fix these issues
by following a test
driven development approach.
Since the requirements
are pretty straightforward, it's easy
to convert them into tests.
First, let us first
try to write down our test descriptions
like maybe our names like test names.
So I'm going to do something
called test dot.
To do this indicates that this is a test
to be completed in the future.
Like it's a loop
right? So first test is to
clear the input field.
After adding a task.
Next up was.
Our app should not add an empty task.
Should not add an empty task.
And the third test requirement was
it should add a task
by pressing the enter key.
Good.
Now that we have our three tests, let's
see what happens if we run our test now.
So let me open a new terminal
and run my tests.
You would immediately see that
we have our three tests that are passing.
oh. Yeah. We had one in our sum.
That's why we are saying three.
But the actual app had two passing.
Only two.
And we have three pending tests,
which is our two tests.
Let's implement the first test.
What should we do.
The user has to type into the input field.
Click on the add button.
And then we have to assert
that the input field is cleared.
So similar to our previous test
we would need a user
which we are getting it from user event.
Next we should have an isolated test.
So we are going to render our app again.
Since we did a clean up,
we are going to clean up
all the previous instances of the app.
I would still need to capture
my input button,
which I'm going to just grab
from my previous tests.
Again, I can pretty much use the
the type and the click events
from the previous test.
Next, I'm going to await and wait for
the user. Click the button.
I'm going to just expect my input
now to be empty.
So we have something to have
value and that can be empty.
And since this is a user event
we know we know that
the test is asynchronous.
Good.
Now that we have a test,
let us remove the todo and see that
we have a failing test.
Great.
So our test is failing.
That is the respective test
that is failing I believe.
yes. Should clear the input field
after adding a task.
Of course, this is going to fail
because we do not write
the respective feature code.
Now you could go ahead and write the test
for the rest of the pending test.
But I prefer to do one test at a time.
So let's go fetch this feature
first back in our app dot TSX.
When we click on our button, right
when you click on the add task,
we know that we should clear our input,
which is nothing but the task name.
So all I'm going to do is set
my task name back to an empty string.
And I'm going to save my file.
And you see that my test now passes.
And we can also verify it by click on my
add the input field as clear.
In a nutshell this is what test
development is.
Test first.
Then you code your feature out.
Here our requirement was pretty simple.
So it's easy to write test.
In fact, you could have, not returned
a test and added this feature.
But this is nice.
It helps when you're refactoring,
which we'll see soon.
Let us implement the second test.
What should we do
when we click on the add button?
When the input field is empty,
it should not add a task to our list.
So we should assert that
the task is not added to the list of task
when it is empty, most of the logic
would remain same and it's fine.
You can delete this bit of duplication.
Since we are testing for empty tasks.
I want to also capture two more bugs
potential bugs, which is whitespace.
So I'm going to just cover whitespace
and empty task in one particular test.
You could have a different test for that
if you want to,
but I'm just going to cover them at once
and we are going to still await
and wait for our task for our user
events to complete.
And now I expect my screen
I'm going to use the screen
since I want to capture the list
item, and I'm going to query.
For all viral.
And what we are looking for is a list
item.
Again,
there could be multiple list items here.
I know
there's only one list in my application,
so make sure you find the right
query for that.
In case you have multiple list
items from distinct lists,
and I want this to have a length of
zero,
right.
And again this is an async test.
Could.
Now let us be more to do.
And we should have a failing test.
Yeah. Should not add an empty task.
And we see that.
Expected to have a length of zero
but got two.
We are getting two
because we have a default list item
already present in our screen.
So let us also remove that.
So let us remove this.
Now we will see that it has one item
right.
So let us check how we can do this.
So before we add our task
I'm going to just grab a variable.
Create a variable to
trim my task name.
I'm going to I'm calling
it trimmed task name.
And if this is not defined right
I'm going to just return.
And wherever I was adding my task name
this is now going to be our trimmed task
name.
Let us save and see
if that pass or test could.
And let's also try it out manually.
Perfect. I'm not able to add any task.
Let's test for whitespace.
Yep, even that doesn't work.
I also want to add a quick call out.
Sometimes people disable these add buttons
when the input field is empty.
There's a lot of
debate around
whether it's a good practice or not.
I personally agree that it's a bad
practice to disable buttons.
It's kind of out of scope of this tutorial
to discuss that,
but I would suggest going through my code
and looking for this particular
article from Adam Silver
to better understand why.
I will also attach this
in the description,
but I'm just letting you know that
disabling the buttons is not a good idea.
According to me at least. Cool.
Coming to our final test,
which is should not add.
It should add a task
by pressing the enter key.
So how could we do this?
Type into the input field.
Press the enter key and then assert
that the task has been added.
Again, we are going to do the same setup
which is on the user
user even dot setup
and render our application.
And we should also be getting our input.
Next up we are going to use the user dot
type method.
Similarly as we did for previous inputs.
But this time we're gonna use
a special characters to do this
to indicate the press of enter key,
which we can do with curly braces.
I'm giving the space, but
maybe you could also remove that, right?
And now we're going to await
and wait for a screen
query all by
role.
And again
I'm going to just check for my list items.
And this tool length
of one I'm using to have length.
You could also check by text like check
whether a new task has been added.
Either works,
maybe that might be a better solution.
But I feel like this is also good
since I know that my tests are isolated.
Again, this is asynchronous
and this should fail.
Oh yeah, this is todo so just remove that
Yeah. This fails.
And let's confirm
that this is the test that fails
so that a task
by pressing the enter key. Yeah.
But now let us go
and add this feature out.
And the simplest way to do
this is actually
to put our input
and the button into the form element.
But I'm going to do that
in the refactoring section.
So right now we are going to use the old
fashioned method of using on key down.
And we are going to get a key.
And if the key is enter
we are going to just basically on a task.
Let us save and check.
Yes. There you go.
Our test passes are good.
Most of our functionality
should also work.
Let me try it.
I'm going to press enter now.
It works.
Enter on empty task doesn't work.
Maybe this way of having a inline
function is is generally not a good idea.
So let us abstract that out
into its own function.
So I'm going to
call this on input key down.
And I will not I
can also show you how it works over here.
So I'm going to just put up
this part here.
Maybe we can enter the curly braces.
Now what is E over here. Right.
So E is
basically a keyboard event from react.
But you can ideally figure out
what is the exact type
you have to give away.
I know this from experience.
So it's react dot keyboard event.
And what type of event element it is.
It's an input element.
And I'm going to just pass this over here.
Now let's save and verify
that our test still passes.
Great.
So this way with a slight refactoring.
And since we had a passing test earlier,
we know that nothing broke.
So this is again power of having tests.
So you could see
how test development is helping us.
But you will see the actual help
in the next section
which we are going to do now,
which is a refactoring.
Our code is kind of clumsy,
so we're going to clean up
a lot of things, and we'll see how having
those those tests will help verify
that our refactoring was
did not lose out on any functionality.
Great.
We are now in the refactoring section.
Refactoring is important irrespective
of whether you have tests or not.
It will always.
You should always find ways
to improve the design of your code,
make it more readable.
Maybe clear out
some of the technical debt.
In fact, the first few lines of code
you write are usually not the best,
and it's best to refactor
once you know there is a better approach.
Now, of course,
the topic of refactoring is huge.
There entire books written on it.
We just go with the bare minimum here.
So I would always say lookout
for good blog articles to improve
on testing and refactoring in general.
If you look at our current app
dot txt file, there's a lot of code around
53 lines of code.
Not bad,
but we could drastically bring this down.
Right away I know a couple of things
I would move away, which is the types.
We can have a separate file or folder
where we store these types right.
So I'm going to create a
type dot.
TXT file
and move my types over there.
And I'm going to export the task type.
Since I'm using it in my app.
We have already used it by around
nine lines or something.
Now maybe we could also extract the input
and the label into its own component.
You could call it
something like task input component.
So I'm going to create a task input file.
And basically move my label and input
into that component.
So it's going to be our export default
function task import
and return.
I'm going to use a fragment
since it has a label and input.
We need a couple of props to be pass
from the parent which is the app.
Right.
So let us define this post.
So I'm going to call this task import
props.
What are we taking.
We are taking a task name which is string.
Then there's a set task name
which takes a task name as a string.
And it's going to be a void.
Next up we have on input zero.
And this we know it's a
react dot keyboard event.
And this is an input element.
And this will also return a void return
nothing which means return y.
Now let us tell our component
to use these types these props
these types for props.
We have a task name.
We have a set task name
and an input key to create a task.
Input is happy.
Let us use this
task input component in our app.
Great!
Let us pass the required props,
which is the task name.
Next up is the set task name.
And also our input key down.
Now you see that
this is not a huge improvement.
Our lines have not reduced,
we just abstracted.
But it pretty much added
the same amount of lines again.
But maybe we could also move our button
into the task input itself.
So let us try to do that.
So I'm going to
move my button also into my
task input
and also pass the on task as a prop.
So let me also define this.
This pretty much takes nothing
and it just calls it.
So it's going to be empty items
and y on a task.
But so on.
We can also pass
the on task function over here.
Great.
Maybe
we reduced by a two lines or something.
Maybe we could also now refactor
our task input name.
We're also worrying about file names.
Right now task input
just sounds like an input.
And. But right now
we also have a button over there.
So it's a good idea to call this something
as maybe add task or in task.
Input with button at task
seems reasonable to me
and I'm going
also rename the actual function export.
Right.
And I'm gonna also call this as a task
and clean up my inputs.
Now you see this on input.
This is not used anywhere else.
And maybe we can move this into our attach
component.
And avoid passing
that prop down from the parent.
So I'm going to clean up that input.
So now you see that
our app file has produced quite a bit.
Now it's around 40 lines. Now.
And we also reduced the amount of props
we pass.
I want to show a little performance
problem.
It's not a huge problem but I'm going to
show unnecessary renders over here.
Let us put a simple console.log
at the top.
I'm going to just call it console.log.
rendered
right and open my console.
Now whenever I type in my input,
you would see that.
You would see that the app has rendered.
This seems unnecessary.
Why does the whole app
app have to render
when I'm typing into the input file?
This has to do something
with where our state is located.
You see our task name,
which is which the input manipulates
is located at the app level,
and ideally we don't have to use it here.
We could bring the state down
into our At task component.
Let us do that.
And this way I don't have to pass my task
name and set task name to the component.
Right.
And I'm going to import react.
Since we're using react over here.
And I'm going to clean up this.
But our on our task
is still in the parent.
Right. And it still needs to task me.
So what we could do is we could
you could pass it as an argument.
So this is going to be a string.
And you see that there's a set task
which we are doing it.
So right away let's
but now let's remove it and you'll see
how our test will help us capture
this later, our missing functionality.
And now we know there's a type mismatch.
Our add task takes a parameter
which is task name.
So now on at task
all we have to do is pass our task name.
And here
where we are and click off button two.
We could pass our task name.
Great.
Now if you save, there would still be one
particular task which is failing.
We are not clearing our input field.
And this happened because
I was refactoring quite a bit of code.
You could also be doing
something like that
and miss out
on that particular requirement.
So having tests will help
catch such bugs, right?
So let us bring that functionality down.
And I don't like this
two different pieces of functions
doing the same stuff like adding task.
So I'm going to abstract that out.
I'm going to have something like punched
handle at task, which will handle
the addition of task to the list.
And I'm going to basically
bring all the logic which was doing my
which was streaming my task and adding it,
and here I could just pass as task.
And I'm going to bring this down
to my handle at task,
and I'm going to still call the on a task.
And this time I'm going to pass
in the dream task name directly
and set my task name back to empty string.
So here
where I was doing a on input key down,
I'm going to just do any letters.
And at the bottom
to where I was clicking on the button,
I'm going to just call this function right
now. Great.
Now our task should pass.
And let us also save the app file.
So we're not using on anything.
Now if you try to type in the input field
you would see that
our app doesn't render anymore.
So this is a good way of solving
certain performance problems
without using fancy stuff
like use callback or use memos.
In fact,
those things might not will not help here.
Just bringing down
our state helped us greatly.
Okay, now I'm going to remove this console
and I'm going to show one more
improvement which we can do.
This is again part of refactoring.
I don't like this logic
where I'm handling the input key down
when the browser gives us
this functionality by default and all.
In order to enable that,
all we have to do is have a form element
and we could remove this key down
logic.
And I can also remove this
onclick on the button and let it be.
An add button would submit a event.
So on submit.
It's going to be handled at task.
Now our form and at task will take
the event.
Will take a parameter event
which is the react dot form event.
And we know that it has HTML form element.
And one thing which we need to do
is prevent
the event e dot prevent default.
So usually forms when you click on submit
they refresh the page.
We want to avoid that.
That's the reason we are doing it
E dot prevent dot default.
So E is a short form for event
right?
It's a form event.
And now if we save
our test are still passing
and we still have a functionality of
adding a task and place of enter
an empty task won't work.
Now, if you look at our code, the app dot
TSX is quite small, around 30 lines.
It is simple code
to read better than previous code or act
component is handling
everything related to adding a task.
This was a very simple
example of refactoring.
Imagine doing this on a larger code base
and improving it drastically.
We also saw how we can we were able to
solve a small performance problem
even though it is small.
In this case,
I use that particular logic everywhere
and hit greatly helped simplify things.
Come on readability perspective also.
Now let us save our code and we'll call it
to send refactor.
See you in the next section.